Netstat is a powerful utility on both Windows and Linux.
I encourage you to explore the various commands.
We're going to view netstat -at and netstat -r here.
Once you've connected to your CentOS server, type netstat -at.
Your output may vary but will look similar to this.
As you can see, there's not much going on,
but the output is similar in nature to what we saw
in Windows with local and foreign addresses.
Now let's try netstat -r here.
This will show us our routing table for this machine.
This would be valuable if we were troubleshooting connection issues to another device.
As you will recall from Lesson 2,
we set up firewall and IDS rules.
Now let's see what happens when those type of alerts fire.
Then we'll learn what mitigation steps we can take.
Here you see a modified version of a real report I review daily.
Across the top, you see all of the relevant categories.
I have selected WordPress attacks,
but there are many others to choose from.
The primary attacks we see are the brute force login attacks and a vulnerability attack.
A brute force attack is where the attacker
throws as many passwords as possible at a target.
A vulnerability attack is where there's a known vulnerability with a piece of software.
You see the source and destination IPs.
I've hidden parts of the sources and modified the destinations for privacy purposes.
What steps can we take to mitigate this threat?
We researched the IPs involved.
Is this source a friend or foe?
Is it on any block lists?
Does our IP even host WordPress or vBulletin.
To research an IP, you can visit abuseipdb.com.
Keep in mind, this is community-driven,
but it can yield trends such as an IP being reported hundreds of times.
Also, VirusTotal is an excellent resource,
it can provide whether an IP,
URL or FAO is malicious or clean.
If you find the traffic is indeed malicious,
you can file a complaint with the ISP hosting it.
To report an IP to an ISP,
you can search the "who is" information,
and by law, the contact for abuse must be present.
You can add the IP to your manual block list we'd learned about in Lesson 2.
You'll also need to verify that
your WordPress and vBulletin installations are fully patched.
Here we have real alerts from a Snort IDS.
Across the top you see the number of alerts,
IPs involved, and what signature fired.
How do we mitigate these alerts?
In much the same way as the firewall report,
we look up each signature and verify it applies to our IP.
We also verify if the external IP is friend or foe.
If you find the traffic is indeed malicious,
you can file a complaint with the ISP hosting it.
Again, you can add the IP to your manual blocklist we learned about in Lesson 2.
If the vulnerability was correct,
you will need to update the software involved.